# Projected long-term effects of colorectal cancer screening disruptions following the COVID-19 pandemic

This repository contains code for the paper *Nascimento de Lima et al, Projected long-term effects of colorectal cancer screening disruptions following the COVID-19 pandemic, eLife [https://doi.org/10.7554/eLife.85264](https://doi.org/10.7554/eLife.85264)*

All figures and tables from our analysis can be reproduced from summary output files using publicly available data and free software. The models underlying the analysis (CRC-SPIN and MISCAN) are not made publicly available per current CISNET policy.  

### Dependencies

We used R version 4.2.1 (2022-06-23) and RStudio 2022.07.1 to perform this analysis. Using an up-to-date R installation (i.e., R> 4.0.0), run the `00_install_dependencies.R` script to install all dependencies. Alternatively, open the `unequal-recovery.covid-19.Rproj` file with RStudio and use `renv::restore()` to use the same package versions we used. 

### Reproducing Figures and Tables

Open the `unequal-recovery.covid-19.Rproj` project with RStudio and run the `01_tables_plots.R` script to generate the figures and tables included in our manuscript. Outputs will be created in the `./output` folder.

### Folder structure

- **./R/funs**: contains the functions and classes used in the analysis.
- **./input**: contains all analysis inputs. Includes data generated by CISNET models. Note that the models and code that produce those inputs are not released in this repository.
- **./output**: houses intermediate outputs created by the scripts.

## Contact

Reach out to [Pedro Nascimento de Lima](https://www.pedrodelima.com) for questions related to this repository.

# License

This repository is released as open-source software under a GPL-2.0 license. See the LICENSE.md file. Copyright (c) 2022 by paper authors: Pedro Nascimento de Lima, Rosita van den Puttelaar, Anne I. Hahn, Matthias Harlass, Nicholson Collier, Jonathan Ozik, Ann G. Zauber, Iris Lansdorp-Vogelaar, Carolyn M. Rutter.

